ah you better be on the lookout if you
see this in a hotel room get out and get
help when you travel your hotel room
becomes your temporary sanctuary it's
the place where you can relax let your
guard down and just enjoy your privacy
or is it what if I told you that you
might not be as safe and alone as you
think when your movie room could
potentially be something straight out of
a Hitchcock movie what should you be on
the lookout for and how can you protect
yourself no worries we have all the
answers you need but before we throw the
shower curtain open on this horror story
make sure to click that subscribe button
and turn on post notifications so that
you won't miss any of the updates coming
out daily on the bright side of life
alright back to the nightmare at hand
we're all well aware by now that
technology rules the world every year we
see no computers phones tablets and even
coffee machines with out-of-this-world
capabilities I mean who would have ever
thought that we'd be able to unlock our
phone just by looking at it but with the
good sometimes comes the bad and in this
case it's annoying and nosy hackers you
think you're safe at home not really
since you likely have a webcam in your
laptop game console and probably even
your TV don't forget about that phone
camera either well at least nobody's
watching you outside right wrong just
give a wave to all those surveillance
cameras keeping an eye out on the
streets okay point taken but hotel rooms
really that's right somebody might be
watching in 2015 a 23 year old woman
booked a room in the Oxford Wheatley
Travelodge everything seemed fine until
she went to the bathroom to take a
shower
while she was in the cabin washing
herself she noticed something in the
vent on the wall in the shower as she
looked closely she realized that it was
a hidden camera as she later confessed
to the Daily Mail she felt absolutely
disgusted and completely violated as
soon as she saw the camera she stuck a
fork in the vent to get it out she
immediately informed the hotel staff who
then promptly called the manager the
Thames Valley Police were brought in to
do a full investigation they found out
that the camera was attached to a USB
cable that was dangling inside the
maintenance unit behind the shower
hidden among the pipes and other hanging
electrical wires the hotel's management
claimed that the camera had been put
there for maintenance purposes but no
longer worked the police dismissed
reports that the cable was actually
linked to a janitor's room and nobody
was arrested hmm does that sound fair to
you but it looks like this wasn't the
only case in Oxford another woman was
staying there for a business trip on the
first day of her visit as she was taking
a shower she also noticed something
unusual about the vet she initially
tried to convince herself that it just
couldn't be what she thought it was so
she finished her shower as fast as she
could upon investigating the vent to her
horror she did find a camera the woman
described it as being held up by white
tape in what looked like an attempt to
hide it when she informed the hotel
manager he immediately took it out and
put it in a plastic bag luckily the
camera wasn't attached to anything at
that time and hopefully wasn't
livestreaming unfortunately these aren't
the only cases of someone's privacy
being horribly violated in 2016 a
Pennsylvania woman found a camera in the
bathroom of the hotel room she had been
staying in with her 11 year old daughter
and hotels aren't the only place where
someone might be watching you or your
family without you knowing it if you
decide to rent
private property for your perfect
vacation you still can't be 100% sure
that you're safe from prying eyes in
2017 a married couple staying in a
vacation rental in Longboat Key Florida
discovered a hidden camera in their
bedroom uh-huh see what I'm saying there
have been several headline-making cases
concerning similar privacy issues in the
past the most well-known of which
involve fox sportscaster Erin Andrews
Michael David Barrett the man who had
been staying in the room next to hers
carved a peephole in the door and filmed
nearly five minutes of her changing on
his cell phone he later posted the video
online for millions of people to see
Andrews sued the stalker for fifty five
million dollars in one but the worst
thing is that no amount of money not
even millions in compensation can undo
the damage that's been done once
something's on the internet it stays
there forever
even though security companies promise
that most Americans have nothing to
worry about
since the risk is quite low you still
have to be prepared for anything you
might think that these kinds of things
only happen to other people in places
far away but that would be naive on your
part
I'm sure the individuals whose stories
we've talked about today also never
would have expected something so
traumatizing to happen to them but in
the blink of an eye they were robbed of
their privacy and sense of security so
how can you protect yourself and make
sure nobody's spying on you during your
stay in a hotel well the first thing you
need to know is that cameras come in all
shapes and sizes nowadays large cameras
are easy to spot so it's the small ones
you've got to be aware of they can be
slipped behind furniture in decorations
or vents and anywhere else you have
trouble noticing but that's still not
the worst part
there are even special cameras that can
be hidden in everyday objects like alarm
clocks smoke detectors or picture frames
yep just like in spy movies nonetheless
there are ways to check for hidden
cameras the most simple one is to look
for the lens reflection to do this turn
off the lights and slowly scan the room
with a flashlight or laser pointer your
task here is to look for bright
reflections of any kind seems a little
over the top
I know but which is worse looking
paranoid for a few minutes or having
some Creepo watching you eggs-actly
given the cases we've seen today
definitely check the vents along with
any other holes and gaps in the walls or
ceiling if you're seriously concerned
about your privacy you can get something
called an RF detector it picks up any
wireless cameras within a 10-foot range
some of these detectors are so advanced
that they can even show you what the
camera is seeing making it way
easier to spot and disable the only
downside is that RF detectors don't work
for Wired and record only cameras as for
anyone who prefers renting private
properties over staying in hotels check
if the rental is controlled by a home
automation system if it is all you got
to do is open the system controller menu
and look for any mention of cameras if
there are none you're safe let's say you
found a camera what do you do next if
you were totally unaware of any indoor
surveillance cameras and weren't
informed about them beforehand you have
every right to call the police you have
direct evidence of privacy violation in
this place and this crime needs to be
reported there might be other cameras in
other rooms that guests don't know about
so you'd be doing them a favor too while
you're waiting for the police to arrive
make sure to document the situation with
plenty of pictures and video if you're
traveling with your friends or family
ask them to be witnesses and never be
afraid to stand your ground hidden
cameras violate your basic
constitutional rights and these
violators must be punished at the end of
the day all we can do is keep an eye out
protect ourselves and help one another
avoid such awful situations for that
reason you should definitely send this
video to all your friends and family so
that we can raise awareness if more
people speak up and know about this
danger then we can put a stop to these
pervs and their sick hobby so do you
have any tips of your own on how to
protect yourself and your privacy tell
us in the comments below don't forget to
give this video a like if you found it
useful and remember we have tons of
helpful videos like this one on the
bright side of life so hit that
subscribe button until next time